---
layout: documentation
title: Lines
---

## Defining a line object

A line can be generated in a number of ways. First, let's look at a line defined by two points:

<div width="500" height="425" class="codePreview">
    
layout:
  OneGraph:
    graph:
      objects:

      # line defined by two points
      - Line:
          point: [3,4]
          point2: [6,5]
          
      # show points for reference
      - Point:
          coordinates: [3,4]
      - Point:
          coordinates: [6,5]


</div>

A line can also be created using a point and a slope: 

<div width="500" height="425" class="codePreview">
    
layout:
  OneGraph:
    graph:
      objects:

      # line defined by a point and a slope
      - Line:
          point: [3,4]
          slope: -2

      # show point for reference
      - Point:
          coordinates: [3,4]

</div>

Or by using the slope and the y-intercept: 

<div width="500" height="425" class="codePreview">
    
layout:
  OneGraph:
    graph:
      objects:
      - Line:
          yIntercept: 2
          slope: 2

</div>

Or by using the inverse slope and the x-intercept: 

<div width="500" height="425" class="codePreview">
    
layout:
  OneGraph:
    graph:
      objects:
      - Line:
          xIntercept: 2
          invSlope: 2

</div>

Or by using _both_ intercepts:

<div width="500" height="425" class="codePreview">
    
layout:
  OneGraph:
    graph:
      objects:
      - Line:
          xIntercept: 2
          yIntercept: 6

</div>

Finally, if you would like to create a line through the origin, you can provide just one point _or_ a slope and the line will, by default, pass through the origin: 

<div width="500" height="425" class="codePreview">
    
layout:
  OneGraph:
    graph:
      objects:
      
      # line defined only by a slope
      - Line:
          slope: 2
          label: {text: "\\text{slope} = 2", x: 3}
          color: green
          
      # line defined only by a point
      - Line:
          point: [3,1]
          
      # show point for reference
      - Point:
          coordinates: [3,1]
</div>

## Labeling a line

Lines are actually a special case of curves, so you can label lines just as you would a curve: in a `label` attribute, use the `text` attribute for the text and an `x` attribute describing the x-coordinate where you want the label to appear. 

Just as with curves, you can also specify the range of values over which you would like the line evaluated.

The graph below shows two lines, both defined by the same two points. One is dotted and extends the full range of the graph; the other is solid, is limited to 0 < _x_ < 8, and labeled at _x_ = 5. 

<div width="500" height="425" class="codePreview">
    
layout:
  OneGraph:
    graph:
      objects:

      # draw a dotted line (lineStyle = dotted)
      # defined by the points (3,4) and (7,8)
      - Line:
          lineStyle: dotted
          point: [3,4]
          point2: [7,8]
          color: blue

      # draw a thick line (strokewidth = 4)
      # defined by the same points,
      # but limited to the range x = 2 to x = 8
      - Line:
          strokeWidth: 4
          point: [3,4]
          point2: [7,8]
          min: 2
          max: 8
          color: blue
          label:
            text: y = x + 3
            x: 5

      # show points for reference
      - Point:
          coordinates: [3,4]
      - Point:
          coordinates: [7,8]


</div>

## Calculations generated by a line

If you add a `name` attribute to a line, you can access calcs generated by the line. For example, consider a line determined by the points (5,1) and (4,2). There are a few things we might want to know about this line, as indicated by the three points in the graph below: 

<div width="500" height="425" class="codePreview">

layout:
  OneGraph:
    graph:
      objects:
      - Line:
          name: myLine
          point: [1,6]
          point2: [3,2]
          label:
            x: 1
            text: "`slope = ${calcs.myLine.slope}`"
      - Point:
          coordinates: [0, calcs.myLine.yIntercept]
          label:
            text: y \text{ intercept}
      - Point:
          coordinates: [calcs.myLine.xIntercept, 0]
          label:
            text: x \text{ intercept}
      - Point:
          coordinates: [calcs.myLine.fixedPoint, calcs.myLine.fixedPoint]
      - Line:
          slope: 1
          strokeWidth: 0.75
          color: grey
      - AngleMarker:
          measure: 45
      

</div>

Because the line is named `myLine` (line 6 of the code), it generates a calc object. This object has five attributes: `xIntercept`, `yIntercept`, `slope`, `invSlope`, and `fixedPoint`. You can then use these auto-generated calculations anywhere else in your graph: for example, to plot a point, or to add a text label.

The intercept and slope values are self-explanatory. The `fixedPoint` attribute corresponds to the point at which the graph crosses the 45-degree line.